>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
We are broadcasting from
beautiful downtown Denver
at the Hay House "I
Can Do It!" conference.
So did you know
that the number one
goal that people have
worldwide is to be happy?
So are you happy?
Does the phrase "life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness"
mean that we don't have it?
What does that really mean?
So joining me today is
psychologist and the director
of the Happiness
Project, Robert Holden.
He's been teaching people all
over the world about happiness
for 15 years.
He teaches a course
called Be Happy.
It's a course with a set
of scientific principles
and exercises that have been
called a genuine fast track
to happiness.
Wouldn't you like to do
that a little bit more?
Welcome to the show.
>>ROBERT HOLDEN: Yay.
Thank you very much, Lisa.
>>LISA: So happiness--
why teach about happiness?
>>HOLDEN: Because it's what
we want, just like you said.
>>LISA: Like I said, yeah.
>>HOLDEN: You know, when you ask
people all over the world, what
is it you most want, number
one answer is happiness.
When you ask people all
over the world, what
is you most want
for your children,
number one answer is happiness.
It's just in us.
We want that experience
of happiness.
It's there from the beginning,
and it's always on our mind.
>>LISA: But why
don't we have it?
Why are we always in pursuit
of it, like the phrase says,
at least in America, that
"pursuit of happiness?"
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, isn't
that interesting?
Something's happened along
the way where we clearly
got a little bit
confused, haven't we?
Let's take that phrase
"pursuit of happiness,"
because it's really interesting.
>>LISA: It is.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
"Pursuit of happiness"
has potentially two meanings.
Well, it's really
down to the word
"pursuit," because
"pursuit" can either
mean to take an interest in--
>>LISA: OK, meaning
you don't have it.
>>HOLDEN: --or to chase it.
>>LISA: Right.
>>HOLDEN: Now, for
me, to have the right
to take an interest
in happiness,
to have the right to
inquire into the true nature
of happiness, that's
a beautiful thing.
But to chase happiness,
that's where,
for me, the great mistake
lies, because the moment
you think you have
to chase happiness,
I believe you have misunderstood
what true happiness is.
So right there in that
phrase and in that word
"pursuit," is almost like
where we've got two roads.
We could either get really
interested in what happiness is
and get clear on what
it is, or we go chasing.
And it's because we go
chasing that I think,
actually, the road to happiness
becomes a never-ending road.
We never actually get that.
>>LISA: It is
interesting, because it's
on the Statue of Liberty.
And it says, we have
life, we have liberty,
but we don't have happiness.
That's what it says.
To me, it says that
we don't have it.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
>>LISA: It is
outside of ourselves.
>>HOLDEN: That's the great
mistake that we make.
And so when I created
the Happiness Project,
initially, part of the reasoning
for creating the project
was because I realized I didn't
know anything about happiness.
I'd been trained
as a psychologist.
I'd been trained in philosophy.
And in my entire training was
really a study of unhappiness.
So I was looking at all the
reasons why we're unhappy.
And one day, it
occurred to me, maybe
we're unhappy because we
don't know what happiness is.
In six years of study,
I only had one lecture
on happiness, only one lecture.
That's not much.
>>LISA: In London is
where you studied?
>>HOLDEN: Actually, no.
I studied in the
middle of England,
in a place called Birmingham.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HOLDEN: But fundamentally,
the entire study,
if I was to break it down for
you, year one and year two
was Introductory Suffering.
Year three and year four
was Advanced Suffering.
Year five and year six
was Inspired Suffering.
Everything we
studied in psychology
was problems-- diagnoses,
problems, unhappiness.
Now, that's a good study.
But fundamentally, the thing
we missed was happiness.
And it just occurred
to me that actually,
maybe the whole
reason we're unhappy
is because we're not clear
what real happiness is.
That's been, basically,
the fundamental basis
of my work with the
Happiness Project.
My feeling is is that most
people don't need more therapy.
What they need is more clarity.
And when we have
more clarity, that
becomes incredibly therapeutic.
That helps us to understand
not just what happiness is,
but who we are.
And when we get
clear, that's when
I think we get to be happier.
>>LISA: Well, it's a good point.
I was doing some research before
the interview on forbes.com.
And it said that America is
actually ranked 11th overall--
and this changes all the
time, but recently-- overall
in terms of the world's
happiest countries, Norway
being number one.
And they then continued to
relate happiness to money.
So the more financial status
that a country would have,
the more happy the people were.
Why are happiness and
money always linked?
>>HOLDEN: Well, they're
not always linked.
It's just that in those
types of studies--
>>LISA: In the media, yeah.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
In those types of
studies, happiness
is defined specifically
here as satisfaction.
Now, again, we have to get clear
on what happiness really is.
And I would suggest there's
three types of happiness.
One type of happiness
is pleasure.
Pleasure is the
enjoyment of the senses.
It's to do with why I will like
coffee and somebody else won't.
It's why some of us like
milk chocolate and some of us
like dark chocolate.
It's why some of us listen to
Barry Manilow records and some
of us don't.
I mean, fundamentally, that
is pleasure and pain happening
right there.
And that's one
type of happiness.
Another type of happiness
is satisfaction.
I am happy because.
Now, most happiness
research in the mainstream
is based around satisfaction.
I'm happy because.
And that's an important
type of happiness.
But there is one other
And that type of
happiness I call joy.
Now, joy is something
else altogether.
Joy is unreasonable
happiness, because joy
doesn't need a reason.
It doesn't need a because.
It's something
completely different.
So fundamentally, again,
the most important thing
is is whenever anybody is
talking about happiness,
whenever you are talking about
happiness, make sure you know
what you're talking
about, because we all
have very different definitions
of what happiness is.
The most important
thing, individually,
is that we know
what we're talking
about when we're
talking about happiness.
>>LISA: Well, it's
interesting, because there's
a slew of books on happiness.
You've done the
study on happiness.
Talk to us about the
project that you did,
the Happiness Project, that the
BBC did the documentary around.
>>HOLDEN: OK, so--
>>LISA: Fascinating.
>>HOLDEN: --when I created
the Happiness Project,
that was in 1992.
I created it on the
National Health Service.
And all the way up until then,
I had been studying unhappiness
and helping people to try to
get over their unhappiness.
Basically, the equation
I was working to,
Lisa, was, if I can help you
get over your unhappiness,
you will then go
away and be happy.
That was the deal.
I never saw it happen.
>>LISA: Really?
>>HOLDEN: I would
help people overcome
one cause of unhappiness.
And instead of them then
going away and being happy,
just before they were
about to be happy,
another unhappiness came up.
And another unhappiness came up.
And so one day I just
decided, you know,
if we're going to get to
happiness, truly, then
we mustn't wait until
we're not unhappy.
What we've got to do
is we've got to say,
I'm going to explore
happiness now.
Right in the middle of
the mess of my life,
right in this imperfect moment
that I'm living in, right here,
I'm going to start to
look at what happiness is.
And originally, our
first mission statement
at the Happiness Project
was "talk happiness."
Let's start talking
about happiness,
because happiness is
the number one goal.
But actually, genuinely,
if you ask people, have
you talked to your parents
ever about happiness,
have you talked to your
partner ever about happiness,
have you talked with your
friends ever about happiness,
the answer is either
"no" or "seldom."
And in my experience,
one of the first things
we can do to get really
clear on happiness
is let's start talking about it.
Let's start talking about
it with the people that
matter most to us to see if we
can start to get clear on it.
So that, for me,
is where you begin.
And that's where I began.
>>LISA: What did you
find that the biggest
source of unhappiness
is for people?
>>HOLDEN: Chasing happiness.
>>LISA: That's that, huh?
It's chasing it.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
>>LISA: Unhappiness
sources would
be loss, a financial
devastation, all those things?
>>HOLDEN: All of those matter.
But fundamentally, I created
the Happiness Project
to help people to give up
the search for happiness,
because, really, the
search for happiness
is what causes all of the pain.
I basically made a
proposition, which
was that there is a
world of difference
between the search for happiness
and following your joy, two
totally different paradigms.
The search for happiness places
happiness outside of you.
It becomes a chase.
And you enter a
paradigm of becoming.
I'm going to become happy.
Not yet-- soon, really soon,
hopefully, but not yet.
And I'm going to have to
chase the happiness in order
to chase it down.
Following your joy is
entirely different.
I don't know if you
can even feel it,
but it's quite a lovely thing.
It's like, chasing happiness,
I'm out of breath already.
Following my joy,
hold on a minute--
I'm now tuning into something
that's already here.
It's really cool.
>>LISA: You have
a great exercise
you took me through before
called "happiness is."
And you had me repeat this
like 11 times or something.
And I went through
from giving you
the textbook answer to
completely crying and then
going into what
actually what it was.
And it was, for me, a perfect
example of what you probably
experience with the
Happiness Project
as people tell you what they
think it is and then realize
they don't have it, because
we've been chasing it
for so long, and then
ultimately understanding
that it is right here.
For me, it was the laughter,
that great laughter,
of my child-- that
awesome, incredible sound
that just reverberates
through my heart.
It just makes my
whole body tingle.
And I love that sound.
>>HOLDEN: I know.
That's beautiful, isn't it?
>>LISA: It is.
It is.
And the funny thing is
that my daughter left me
a voice message once
on my cell phone.
And I kept it, because
in the message,
she was belly laughing so hard.
And if I'm ever out of
town and away or whatever,
I'll go back in and I'll listen.
It takes me right there.
And that's what it is.
Happiness is that
feeling of total joy,
like you experience
that elation.
So in the project,
though, did you
ever get to that
level with people?
Did they ever stop chasing?
>>HOLDEN: All the time.
Yeah, all the time.
And what we did was we created
an eight-week happiness
program.
Now, that's the program
that's called "Be Happy."
And that was, I felt, a
good enough amount of time
to help people really make that
shift from chasing happiness
to following your joy.
And we did that over a number
of different exercises.
But I guess we started with
getting clear on what happiness
is and just realizing that
happiness isn't outside of us.
And this is the big thing, Lisa.
Happiness isn't even inside us.
We've got to get
closer than that.
Outside and in is just-- I
call those body metaphors.
We say "outside"
and "in" because we
think we're this body.
Happiness is closer
to you than that.
It's not outside you.
It's not inside you.
It's your true nature.
The whole reason
we want to be happy
is because we want
to be ourselves.
And when we're happy,
we're being ourselves.
It's the whole reason why,
across all the cultures
of this planet, the one thing
that we seem to have in common
is that we want to
be happy, because we
want to be ourselves.
>>LISA: It's true.
And when you have that
experience of being yourself,
if you express fully who
you are, you feel free.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
It's a fantastic feeling.
And it's us being authentic.
So another thing
we look at, Lisa,
is the purpose of happiness.
Now, often, this gets
missed in our inquiries.
You know, I think
the whole reason
why I didn't have any
good lectures on happiness
when I was studying
psychology is
because we didn't understand
the purpose of happiness.
We just thought happiness was
a pleasurable emotion, a fun
thing to feel from time to time.
But I think if we
had understood back
then the purpose of happiness,
I think we would study it more.
And I would suggest that
the purpose of happiness
is to help us to be authentic.
The whole point of
happiness is to show you
when you're being
true to yourself.
When you're being
true to yourself,
even if it's putting other
people out-- temporarily,
hopefully-- it's
like we know we're
sustained by that feeling
of happiness, which says,
this is true, I'm on track,
I'm being true to myself.
The purpose of
happiness, it's a light
on your personal dashboard,
which is basically saying,
you're on track,
you're doing great.
Unhappiness, on the other
hand, is often feedback
that we're not being
true to ourselves.
And that's why we also have to
pay attention to unhappiness,
because it's trying to
show us, hold on a minute,
let's take a moment.
Let's stop, and let's see how
I can be more true to who I am.
>>LISA: Have you been
unhappy in your life?
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, lots.
Absolutely.
It's a feature of the
human condition, isn't it?
It's right there.
I guess, in my experience
of unhappiness,
it originally would
have been actually
through my relationship
with my parents,
because my mum had experienced
depression most of her life.
So I witnessed
this person that I
loved dearly having this extreme
experience of depression.
And it was recurrent
depression, Lisa.
So this is the depression
that happens in episodes.
It would arrive
often unannounced.
So it would take her
and us by surprise.
And then it would settle in.
And it might settle in for
a day or a week or months.
And in the really
bad times, she'd
go away into mental hospitals.
She would have those
extreme treatments back then
of electric shock therapy.
I mean, terrible, terrible,
terrible stuff going on.
So that was what I was
witnessing in my mum.
And in my dad, well,
my dad was alcoholic.
And he left home
when I was about 15.
And for the last 10
years of his life,
he lived homeless
a lot of the time.
So the two people that
I absolutely love,
the two people that I
know really loved me,
were battling with these demons.
And I guess I saw unhappiness
originally through them.
But of course, I have
my own unhappiness, too.
But it was right there
from the beginning.
And in many ways,
that unhappiness
was the catalyst for
wanting me to understand
what happiness is.
>>LISA: Of course.
It took your parents away
from you in many ways.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: And it would be
that uninvited guest that
would come in and
take away everything.
And that is exactly
what depression
feels like for people, is
it's the uninvited guest that
comes in and takes over.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: But it's disabling.
So how do you get up and
out of that with your mind?
Can you really do that?
>>HOLDEN: Not by yourself.
No, I don't think you
can do it by yourself.
>>LISA: Very realistic answer.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, I
don't think you can.
I think, actually, the
purpose of healing,
fundamentally, is to--
at the most basic level,
it's to overcome our
sense of separateness.
That's at the most basic level.
>>LISA: That's a great point.
Yes.
>>HOLDEN: You take
something like depression.
I think depression is probably
the most widespread diagnosis
on the planet, and I would
also say the most unhelpful
diagnosis on the planet,
because when you really
look at depression, it
doesn't even mean anything.
I mean, really, just
take a look at the word
as if you've never seen
it before-- "depressed."
What's that?
I mean, it's not even a feeling.
>>LISA: It means
to put down, right?
>>HOLDEN: Well, yeah.
You have to say,
is that what it is?
And then what I think you
have to do with depression
is almost go behind the
feeling or behind the word
and say, give me
another word for it.
And then what happens
is, most often,
people will talk about
something like, I feel down,
or I feel isolated,
or I feel hopeless.
Now we've got
something to work with,
because we can deal
with those feelings.
But purely when it's depressed,
I would say it's too vague.
So we need to get more intimate
with the feeling in a way.
>>LISA: So the word
itself is disconnecting.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, it is.
Exactly what it is.
I think that's a really
good way of putting it,
because once it's
just depressed,
it's almost we feel
so hopeless about it,
it's like all we think we
can do with it is a chemical.
>>LISA: Right.
>>HOLDEN: Let's try something
chemical and hope it helps.
>>LISA: Because you want to
go outside yourself, because,
obviously, it's not
working in here.
So when your mom was going
through that depressed state,
she was disconnected
from herself.
>>HOLDEN: Exactly what it was.
In fact, I would
say, with her, there
was this huge
feeling of isolation,
a huge feeling of separateness.
>>LISA: Even though she
was there with somebody
loving her so much.
>>HOLDEN: Completely.
It's not a logical thing.
>>LISA: No, of course not.
Of course not.
>>HOLDEN: It's more
existential than that.
I think it goes to that
place of, I feel alone.
I'm surrounded by
everyone, and I feel alone.
And it is amazing how many
of the great traditions
have pinpointed separateness
as the great delusion,
as the great problem of
existence, if you like.
It's something that,
fundamentally, I
think we need to overcome.
And for that reason, you
can't heal on your own.
In fact, I would say to
everybody, don't even
try to heal on your own.
The whole point of healing is to
connect with something greater
than your sense of
self, because it's
something greater than
your sense of self that's
going to get you out of this.
>>LISA: So purpose--
>>HOLDEN: Possibly.
>>LISA: --could get
you out of depression?
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
You know what?
It could be anything.
>>LISA: Other people?
>>HOLDEN: It's other people.
I mean, honestly, it
could be your cat.
It could be your dog.
It could be-- have you ever
seen "Shirley Valentine?"
You ever seen that movie?
"Shirley Valentine"
is a story of a woman who
goes through a midlife crisis.
And she has a relationship
with her wall.
She speaks to her wall.
Hi, wall.
>>LISA: For weaving?
>>HOLDEN: No, this wall.
Wall, literally.
I'm speaking to my wall now.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>HOLDEN: I need to
speak to somebody.
Like Tom Hanks spoke
to-- was it Nelson?
>>LISA: Wilson.
>>HOLDEN: Wilson.
That's it.
You've got to talk to something
other than your sense of self.
It almost doesn't
matter, so long
as you're getting out
of your self image.
>>LISA: It's interesting
you use those two analogies,
that those are people
who were talking
to inanimate objects
that can't feedback.
So for example, if you were
to say your mom you loved her,
she couldn't hear you.
But she might be able to receive
more from an inanimate object--
>>HOLDEN: Possibly.
That's true.
And that's why sometimes I
think cats and dogs really work.
>>LISA: Right, absolutely.
>>HOLDEN: I remember we
used to work on this one
particular ward in
the local hospital.
And every now and then,
they'd bring this parrot in.
And this parrot, I tell you,
it was not even a whole parrot,
really.
I mean, its wings
were all tatty.
And it was more effective
than most of the consultants.
This parrot would show up,
and people became animated.
People who hadn't
even spoken for days
would light up and
look at this parrot.
So fundamentally,
what I've learned
is that healing, at
the most basic level,
is where we find
a way to overcome
that sense of separation.
And that separation isn't just
with everyone else, ultimately.
Actually, it's with
our real stuff.
>>LISA: And maybe we can
connect with our real self
through a connection
with somebody else.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
I mean, the good
news is, Lisa, we're
already connected
to our real self.
So that's why it's
possible for everyone.
>>LISA: We just need reminders.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
Whatever works.
>>LISA: So what happens if
you're in a place of crisis,
where you're going along
fine, and then an accident,
or you open a tax bill
you didn't expect,
or the death of a loved
one happens instantly?
And that leads to the
cycles of depression.
So we're talking
about happiness here.
This is the point
of the interview.
How do you get happy from
those really devastating blows?
>>HOLDEN: OK, well, I
think, fundamentally,
what we have to do
is we have to move
beyond a face-off between
happiness and unhappiness,
because when you
create this face-off,
it's like, all right, OK,
if I'm going to be happy,
then I must never be unhappy.
And what we try to
do is we try to walk
on the bright side of the road.
And we say, I'm never going
to look at the unhappiness.
That's the way I'm
going to do it.
I'm going to be a
positive thinker.
Which is really hard
in England, by the way.
It may be easier in America.
But it's like, I'm going
to be a positive thinker.
I'm going to go on the
bright side of the road,
and I'm never going
to be unhappy.
And guess what?
That unhappiness, it haunts you.
It haunts you in ways that,
fundamentally, it will get you.
Therefore, true happiness is
not the absence of unhappiness.
True happiness is the capacity
to handle your unhappiness
honestly and fundamentally
with love and acceptance.
You have to find a way to
bring them all together.
And that, for me,
is the great thing.
So we ended up, on
the Happiness Project,
talking about what I
call the big happiness,
the big happiness that holds
you when you're flying high,
but also the big
happiness that holds you
when you're on your knees, the
big happiness that holds you
even when everything
appears to be falling apart,
the big happiness that helps
you to see that what's falling
apart isn't the real you;
it's your self image.
Now, that's bad enough, but at
least it's not the real you.
And the big
happiness, somehow, it
gives us that perspective to be
able to meet that unhappiness
honestly, to not call
that unhappiness negative.
We call emotions
negative emotions.
There's no such thing
as a negative emotion.
There's just emotions
we judge as negative.
>>LISA: OK.
>>HOLDEN: But we learn
little tricks along the way.
>>LISA: That's a good one.
>>HOLDEN: Well, one
of the little tricks
I learned along the way--
and this is so simple, Lisa.
And this wouldn't help everyone.
But it helped me.
There's an old Buddhist trick,
which is, when you're unhappy,
when you're sad, when you're
angry, you don't say, I am sad,
I am angry.
You say, I am with
sadness, I am with anger.
Now, that might sound like
semantics to one or two people.
But to me, what that helped me
to do with my own relationship
with emotions was
to be able just
to see that I'm not that anger.
That's an experience I'm having.
But it's not my identity.
Now, if it's not my
identity, maybe there's
something bigger in me that
can meet that sadness, that
can meet that anger and
do something about it.
>>LISA: That is a great
point, because you
don't identify with
it and make yourself
that depression or that
anger or that whatever.
Yes, it gives you--
>>HOLDEN: It's an
experience I'm having.
But it's not me.
And if it's not me,
then maybe, as I say,
there's something else in
me that can handle this.
By the way, as we're
talking about this,
I've got to tell you a story
about Bo, my daughter Bo.
Because Bo, she's,
like, seven now.
And what I love
about children is
that children can
experience all the emotions
inside half an hour--
>>LISA: Fully.
>>HOLDEN: --and still be OK.
And I love how they can do that.
Do you know what I mean?
They're amazing how they can
feel every single feeling
and just come out of
it inside half an hour
and still be their glorious,
happy, adorable selves.
And literally, just the other
day, I was having a shower.
Bo runs up to me, and
she's all Italian.
She's all emotional.
She's having a tantrum.
And she is going for it.
And she's just having this
huge, huge experience.
And basically, I look at her,
and I hum the first few bars
of Will Ferrell's-- sorry,
Pharrell Williams' "Happy."
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>HOLDEN: That's
all I had to do,
the first few bars of "Happy."
And within moments, she's gone
from tantrum to boogieing.
And she's like that,
and she's happy.
And I loved how she
could make that switch
inside just a few seconds.
Do you know what I mean?
>>LISA: That is a great idea.
>>HOLDEN: And it's
like, oh my god.
I hope for you, Bo, that you
have that for your whole life,
because that's
fundamentally what we're
trying to do for
each other is just
to see that these emotions
are big, and they're powerful,
and they're real, and
they're to be honored.
But because they're not us,
there's something bigger in us
that can handle all of those.
>>LISA: You said a great quote.
You said, "Happiness is
nowhere and right here
at the same time."
And that explains what you
were just telling us about
with her, that the
happiness was nowhere,
but then it was right
here at the same time.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah,
it's always here.
>>LISA: If we could
all be like that.
>>HOLDEN: Happiness
is always here.
The problem is we're
not always here.
So happiness doesn't come and
go, not the real happiness.
Joy doesn't come and go.
It's us that comes and goes.
We're the ones that get manic.
We're the ones that get busy.
We're the ones that run
off chasing the happiness.
When we come back to ourselves,
that's when we find happiness.
>>LISA: Exactly.
There is a clip here
where Robert Holden
is talking on "Good
Morning, America."
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
--What if we discovered
that happiness
was not outside our control,
but very much from within?
What if we discovered ways,
secrets, to activate the most
happiness that you could
have on any given day?
Well, there's a groundbreaking
study that says it can be done.
It's called the
Happiness Project,
a scientifically tested program
that promises, in its essence,
to rewire your
brain for happiness.
And joining us now
is the mastermind
behind the Happiness
Project, Dr. Robert Holden,
author of the book "Be Happy."
Happy to see you.
--Good morning, Diane.
--Good to have you with us.
--Thank you for having me.
--Now, we have been told there
are actual brain scans that
show, over eight weeks in
this Happiness Project,
the brain changed.
The reflexive nature of the
brain changed for happiness?
--Isn't that amazing?
Yes.
It's an eight-week program that
we've been running in the UK
for 15 years now.
And basically put,
we've found that when
people take the
program, they really
do make positive
changes in their life,
their work, their relationships.
But also, it does change
their brain chemistry.
--And you have said, your anthem
is, you cannot chase happiness,
but you can choose happiness.
--Absolutely.
--And how does
this work, since we
all wake up to
disappointments in our days?
You can't get in the skirt.
You're miserable about what
you have to do that day.
You're someone facing
the economic crisis
in the worst way, unemployment.
How do you choose happiness
on a day like that?
--Well, I think
the first thing is
is that the pursuit of happiness
has definitely speeded up.
We are chasing happiness
faster than we've ever
chased it before.
We work faster, we live faster,
we eat faster, we talk faster,
we breathe faster, we
do everything faster.
And yet, in this race
towards happiness,
we somehow haven't
closed the gap.
So I think we do need to stop
and really rethink happiness
and ask ourselves,
truly, what is happiness?
And I think that's so important,
because your definition
of happiness
ultimately influences
the rest of your life.
So start by getting clear
on what happiness is.
--Getting clear.
And I am going to run
through the five areas
very quickly here.
And then we'll talk in
detail about some of it.
But attitude-- make up your
mind that you want to be happy.
Relationships-- you focus, and
focus your essential energy
on your loved ones.
Work-- have a passion, not
a job; a purpose, not work.
Faith-- believe in
something bigger.
And participate--
don't wait, just do it.
But I want to bring up a
couple of our audience members
if I can-- Penelope,
Bobby, and Felicia,
because we gave some
happiness tests.
--Yeah.
We made sure America just tested
themselves on happiness today.
--Right.
And Penelope-- raise
your hand over there,
Penelope-- you got the
hurry-up problem, I gather.
Tell me what you would say to
Penelope about getting happy
when she rushes, rushes,
rushes through life.
How does she begin?
--Well, Penelope, we
had a conversation.
And we worked out
that, sometimes, we're
in such a rush, it's almost like
we have no time to be happy.
How strange is that?
It's like we suffer from what
I call destination addiction.
We hope to be happy one day.
But really, the art
to happiness is also
to make time to be happy now.
So the key today is to
stop once in a while.
Pay attention to the moments in
your day when you're happiest.
And see if you can
learn something
about yourself and your life
by tuning into those moments.
--So start.
It's a simple little
habit to develop
by savoring, stopping to savor.
--Yeah, and definitely
stop every now and then.
--Bobby-- overwhelmed, just
over-scheduled, overwhelmed.
What's the answer?
--Well, I think, from a
conversation with Bobby,
what we worked out
is you really have
to work out why
you wake up today.
And I think that's a
really good question--
why have I woken up today?
What purpose shall I give today?
And in working out what
purpose you want to give a day,
I think life becomes a creative
act, because now you're
not just waiting to
be happy, but you're
participating in your life.
You're saying, I can
create my day, too.
Even though the stock
market goes up and down,
I can have a say in how my
life is going to be today.
--Do you believe you
can do it, Bobby?
--Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
--All right.
New way to think.
And of all the tests we gave,
Felicia is the happiest.
Welcome to our happiness
champion over there.
And why is that?
--Well, firstly, if you
take a look at Felicia,
I think you are just
joy, if I may say so.
You've got this smile,
and it's gorgeous.
But you have said two things
to me that are so important.
The first is that you
have a strong faith.
And that is absolutely
a stand out clause.
If you believe in a god
of unconditional love,
that supports you in
your life, no end.
But the other thing
that Felicia has,
she pays attention
to her relationships.
She gives her best energy to her
most important relationships.
And undoubtedly,
that's important,
because we've been shopping
for happiness for a long time.
And I don't think we're going
to find it in the shopping list.
We'll find it in our
relationships and our faith.
--Yes, and a couple of
other things you've said-
take a vow of kindness
starting with yourself.
And mothers particularly
have to do that.
Be kind to yourself.
And remember, happiness
is contagious.
So all around you,
Felicia, people
are inexplicably
happy this morning.
And we thank you so much, Dr.--
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: So you said
that happiness literally
influences every decision
you make in your life.
>>HOLDEN: Your
definition of happiness
influences every
decision in your life,
because, for instance, if you
place happiness outside of you,
guess what?
Your whole focus is
on outside of you.
If you know it's
inside of you, you're
going to make decisions
in a whole other way.
If you know it's
you, you're going
to make decisions in the
whole, whole other way.
>>LISA: How do we know what
our definition of happiness is?
How do we know
that individually?
>>HOLDEN: We have to
spend some time on that.
We really do.
We have to actually
ask ourselves.
It becomes an inquiry.
We have to actually really
get to grips with that
and actually think about
that for ourselves.
So that's why, really,
I'm a teacher of inquiry.
I love inquiry, because
inquiry basically
respects the individual.
It respects you and me.
Inquiry is based on the
idea that, really, we
have the wisdom
within us already.
Wisdom is never really new.
Wisdom is remembered.
You and I, we know
what true happiness is.
When we stop being neurotic
and running around and being
manic and busy, we
come back to our heart.
And our heart knows
what happiness is.
And when we remember, then
we set the record straight.
>>LISA: I was having a
horrible day the other day.
There were several
things that went wrong.
Somebody lost a
huge chunk of money.
And then something
else happened.
It was just like a cascade.
And I said to my husband
halfway through the day,
I said, I feel like
I am in this loop,
that I'm in this cycle of
catastrophe-- crisis, crisis,
crisis.
And I'm waiting for
the next crisis,
because I'm defending it.
And so then I get my
daughter in the car.
We go to her practice,
and I realize
that I've completely
missed the practice.
It was at a totally
different time.
I look at the text, and it was
in a different place and time
completely.
And I sat there
with her and went,
all right, I need to make
a decision right here.
I'm either going to let her
feel the entire impact of my day
and everything wrong that has
happened up to this point.
Or what I chose to do instead
is I rolled my windows down.
It was a beautiful, breezy day.
We laid the seat
backs of the car.
We opened the sun roof.
And we watched this oak tree.
And it is burned as an
image in my mind right now
of just blowing in the wind.
We turned the music up.
That song "Happiness" was on.
And we just cranked it
up and sat there and just
had a great time.
>>HOLDEN: Beautiful.
>>LISA: And then we fell asleep.
>>HOLDEN: Wow, really?
>>LISA: We took a 20-minute
cat nap in the sun--
>>HOLDEN: How cool.
I love that.
>>LISA: --during
the hour practice.
It was such a golden moment.
And what I chose to do after
that was not talk about my day,
not recreate it, not
tell the story of it,
not get back into
the cycle of it,
because it was only going to--
So then I thought, how much
do we do that in our life?
How much do we recreate
the childhood trauma,
the bad relationship,
the horrible boss?
How do we recreate that every
single moment when we talk
about it or think about it?
That's what we're teaching when
we talk to our kids about that,
is to how to have a
horrible day, a bad boss,
and really lose a lot of money.
It's really kind of what we do.
So that goes back
to the definition.
>>HOLDEN: It does.
Can I just say, what I
love about what you've just
told me there,
though, as well, is
that you know enough
about happiness already
that one of the
gifts of happiness
is that it gives you
the power to reset
in the middle of
the unhappiness.
>>LISA: It's taken a
lot of practice, though.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, but
that's what happens
is the more and more familiar
we get with real happiness,
it's like we notice when
we're out of balance.
And initially, we maybe
can't do very much about it.
But there's that reset
muscle in us, which actually,
at some point, says,
hold on a minute.
Stop.
Stop telling the story.
Stop chasing whatever I'm
chasing, whatever it is.
And it's just a
beautiful example for me
of what we can do when we
know what true happiness is.
We get that reset
capacity in us to do it.
>>LISA: Well, I was raised
by a raging alcoholic.
God bless him.
Vietnam vet and had
post traumatic stress
and raging fits.
Things would go flying
into television sets,
and wooden spoons would
get cracked on a lot of us.
It was a very
reactive childhood.
I would always look
for underneath the bed.
And I had to un-train that
level of reaction in me.
And those types of cycles
go through generations.
Studies show they go through
up to five generations
deep of abuse, rage,
alcoholism, all of that.
Knowing what I have
been so blessed
to be able to interview
people like you,
read your books, throughout
my wonderful experiences,
is that you can break cycles.
>>HOLDEN: That's right.
That's why I wrote "Happiness
Now." "Happiness Now," that
was a book I wrote back in '98.
That was the one Oprah found
and why I went on her show.
"Happiness Now" was
making that stand
to say that sometimes
happiness is giving up
all hopes for a better past.
It's that moment
when we basically
are able to look at our
past and, instead of saying
to ourselves, if only
it had been different,
I would be different now, it's
actually being able to say,
do you know what, my
past happened exactly
as it happened, and
it's time to honor that.
And if I can honor that, then
maybe I can actually let it go,
let it be in the
past, a place that I
can revisit whenever I want.
But I'm going to live
now in this moment.
That process is sacred.
Normally, it's a
process described
as forgiveness
and of letting go.
And it's vital to happiness.
It's absolutely vital.
>>LISA: I completely
can see that.
And parenting has been
one of the best ways
for me to learn that,
because I didn't
want to repeat the patterns.
I wanted to create
something new.
And it gives me the opportunity
every moment to do that.
Oprah would've been a great mom.
And she is the
mother to many, where
she gets to teach
what she learns.
And also, I completely
forgive my father.
I mean, my god.
What he saw and what he
experienced in that war,
it's amazing that he's still
such an incredible human being.
So it does enable that.
And so this is what you do.
So you have the
Happiness Project.
And then there's another
one, which I find incredible,
about the Success Intelligence.
We talked a little bit
earlier about that link
between happiness and success.
>>HOLDEN: Yes.
Well, let me tell you
about the personal link.
I mean, the personal
link, really, for me,
is that I described
the Happiness Project
as my open letter to my mum.
And I think of Success
Intelligence as my open letter
to my dad.
>>LISA: Nice.
>>HOLDEN: And the
Happiness Project
is a meditation on
what is real happiness.
And Success Intelligence
is a meditation
on what is real success.
>>LISA: What is real success?
What is it?
I'm asking you.
>>HOLDEN: OK.
Well, for me, I would
have to say it's love.
If your definition of success
has little or no mention
of love, get another
definition as fast as possible.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>HOLDEN: It has to be love.
>>LISA: What is it you hear
mostly, definition of success?
Having X, Y, Z?
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
It goes along the same
lines as happiness.
It's all about
having and getting
and wanting and chasing.
And everybody goes down
that line for a while,
to the point where
we satisfy ourselves
that it isn't real success.
It's like a phase we
have to go through.
And we do it.
>>LISA: I've done it.
Yeah, absolutely.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, we all do it.
And I encourage people to do it.
Get it over and done with.
That's my feeling.
>>LISA: The acquiring,
having thing.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah, go
and get your BMW.
Do what you need to do.
And enjoy it, as
well, by the way.
It's not that these
things are wrong.
It's just that they
don't make you happy.
One of the keys to
happiness is to understand
that nothing makes you happy.
If you can get that,
then you're free.
Nothing in this
world makes us happy.
Everything in this world can
encourage us to be happy.
But nothing can make us happy.
Once you've got
that, once you know
that you've arrived with
the happiness already,
then you're free
to enjoy the world.
Now you can go shopping for fun
rather than thinking shopping
is the purpose of your life.
>>LISA: Window shopping
is just as satisfying
when you realize that.
>>HOLDEN: You can shop for fun.
But it's just not the
purpose of your life.
And once you know that,
that's really cool.
In the same way,
with success, it's
like you have to go through
some of the counterfeit coins
to get to the real gold.
>>LISA: You just said
something really, really great.
You said, as long
as we don't realize
that outside things
make us happy,
but you've already
arrived with happiness.
Detail that for me.
You arrive with happiness.
Arrive where?
Here?
>>HOLDEN: Here.
Absolutely here.
Something happens to us, Lisa.
And it happens in different
ways to all of us.
But we experience
a fall from grace.
The fall from grace is
where, for some reason,
we lose touch with our
true nature, what I call--
>>LISA: Happens around our 20s.
20s, 30s.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
It's where we lose
touch with what
I call the unconditioned self.
Now, the unconditioned self
is just our true nature.
And really, happiness
is our true nature.
Happiness is you
minus your neurosis.
That's all happiness is.
It's just you.
Love is you minus your neurosis.
Everything you need for success,
you arrived with that already.
It's in your being.
Now, the thing is, in our
world, we don't do being.
We do doing, going, wanting,
having, learning, helping,
chasing-- bum, bum,
bum, bum, bum, bum, bum.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
And that's what
we're marketed to do.
>>HOLDEN: Yes.
>>LISA: We're marketed
to this prescription will
make you feel this way
and romantic and all that.
>>HOLDEN: In the cultures
that you and I grew up in,
we're not beings.
We're consumers.
>>LISA: Magazines,
articles, billboards--
you see them all day, every day.
How many-- 3,000 images--
are given to you a day
of what to buy?
>>HOLDEN: Exactly.
That's right.
That's the average.
And if you live in a
city, it's 3,000-plus.
>>LISA: Unless you're
in Colorado here,
where they don't
have billboards.
But when you have that
idea of everywhere
you look is being told, you
need to do this to be happy,
you need to buy
this to be happy,
you need to go this
place to be happy.
Every external message
out there tells you
happiness is outside yourself.
>>HOLDEN: It's absolutely right.
I wrote a book called "Shift
Happens." "Shift Happens"
is a book where I
made a distinction
between self-improvement
and self-acceptance.
And in that book,
I made the point
that, actually, no amount
of self-improvement
can make up for any
lack of self-acceptance.
Self-acceptance is
where you accept
that you are the happiness
you're looking for,
that you are the love
you're looking for.
If you won't accept
that, then it
doesn't matter how much you
try to improve yourself.
It doesn't matter how beautiful
you try to make yourself look
or how successful you try
to make yourself look.
You'll never feel like you've
improved yourself enough.
This is why self-improvement
is so exhausting for all of us.
>>LISA: Yeah.
It's such a pursuit.
>>HOLDEN: It's such a pursuit.
What we're telling ourselves
is, I'm not ready for happiness
yet, I'm not ready for love yet,
I'm not ready for success yet.
>>LISA: I'm not good enough.
>>HOLDEN: I'll be ready
for it soon, apparently,
in about 18 months' time.
But that 18 months
never gets any closer.
And our whole life,
we're chasing,
and we're trying to
improve ourselves in order
to be happier, to be
successful, to be more loving.
I think one of the
greatest things
we can do for
ourselves is to just
be willing, just for a moment,
to see what's it like to be me
when I'm not trying
to improve myself.
Literally, what's
it like to be me
when I'm not trying
to improve myself?
And I tell you, when people
sit with that for five minutes,
they start to feel really
good about themselves.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
>>HOLDEN: And what
they're connecting with
is the joy that we're
meant to follow,
the love that's trying to guide
us and bless us and inspire us
in our life.
It's all there.
>>LISA: And I love that
you give us practical ways
to be able to get to that place.
I love the idea of "Holy Shift."
This is-- explain it if you can.
It's the "Course in
Miracles" brought to you
in easy, digestible chunks.
>>HOLDEN: Yay, "Holy Shift."
Well, I've been a student
of "A Course in Miracles"
for 20 years.
And "A Course in Miracles"
is a publishing phenomenon,
because it has sold
millions of copies,
but hardly anybody's read it.
And the reason why
hardly anybody's read it
is because it's, like,
1,500 pages of full-on text.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's
difficult to digest.
>>HOLDEN: It's so hard.
It is so hard.
Most of us, we put it
on our bookshelves,
and we just let
the glow help us.
And we want to read
it, and we can't.
So what do we do?
We go to Marianne Williamson.
Thank the lord for
Marianne Williamson.
We read "A Return to Love."
And we find other people
have written beautiful books
about "A Course in Miracles."
What I wanted to do
with "Holy Shift"
was to create a day book of
excerpts from the course.
So this is purely
"Course in Miracles"
material and excerpted.
So I've taken 365 of
my favorite sayings,
and I've put them
into a day book.
And you can just
open it up and--
>>LISA: Just like I am now.
>>HOLDEN: Yeah.
And you'll hopefully
find something
that really resonates
and just make sense.
>>LISA: Oh, you say, "You
believe that without the ego,
all would be chaos.
Yet, I assure you that without
the ego, all would be love."
And you take one of
these daily quotes
and just approach your entire
day with that philosophy.
>>HOLDEN: That's a
beautiful meditation.
So can you read that
one to me again?
>>LISA: "You believe
that without the ego,
all would be chaos.
Yet, I assure you that without
the ego, all would be love."
>>HOLDEN: OK, so if we just took
a moment and said, OK, hold on.
What if, today, instead of
what does the ego love to do,
let's think about it.
The ego loves to judge.
I'm always judging myself.
All right, just
for five minutes,
I'm going to see what
it's like to be me
when I'm not judging myself.
I'm going to give up
judgment for five minutes.
It should be OK.
Everything will be fine.
It won't be that chaotic.
And I just sit for a moment.
And I just go, hold on a minute.
This is me when I'm
not judging myself.
This feels good.
This feels really, really good.
OK, I've been judging
myself my whole life.
Where's it got me?
Let's think about
this for a minute.
I mean, seriously, how well
have I done by judging myself?
And it occurs to me that,
well, actually, it's not really
been that good for me.
I can't honestly say to you
that the success of my life
is down to the fact that I've
judged myself consistently,
24/7, for 30 years.
That's what these
types of meditations
are asking us to do.
They're asking is just to stop.
That's the first thing
in a spiritual practice.
Stop.
Stop telling your story.
Stop being an ego.
Stop being your self-image.
And let's just see what it's
like to be you when you're not
chasing the happiness, when
you're not searching for love,
when you're not after success.
Let's just see what it's
like to be you already,
before you go shopping.
Maybe, maybe, what
you're shopping
for is what you already are.
>>LISA: You can
apply that to eating,
as well, emotional eating.
You can really stop
judging yourself
about what you
look like and then
be mindful in what you're
putting in your mouth
and in what reason.
Is this because I'm
trying to create comfort
in a difficult situation?
Well, maybe I should
look at the situation.
Those types of things.
>>HOLDEN: Totally.
>>LISA: So you did this really
great piece on leadership.
And I think that
everything we've
talked about up to this
point, about happiness
and about Success Intelligence,
the next evolution of that
is leadership, I believe.
>>HOLDEN: I agree with you.
>>LISA: We're going to
take a quick look at this,
because I think
it's very important.
Take a look at Robert Holden
talking about leadership.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
--My starting point
with leadership
is that leadership
isn't a position.
It's not a job title.
It's not a pay grade.
I think it's more a way of
showing up in the world.
And leadership
starts with the idea
that, really, the
world is an effect.
It's an effect of us.
So if we want to see
a different world,
we just have to be willing
to show up differently.
Now, the four areas
that I've covered,
the first one was all
about that leadership
is about being more
of who you really are.
So it's not just about
putting on a suit
and showing up in a certain
role and being a certain way.
It's actually being more
of who you really are.
If you think something
is missing at work,
if you think something
is missing in a project,
if you think something is
missing in a conversation,
maybe what's missing is
you, more of the real you.
So that's my starting point.
After that, I'm
suggesting that leadership
is all about making sure the
team understands what's real,
that we know what our
real strengths are,
our real purpose are, and
what our real vision is.
We will be busy, we will be
manic, we will be hyperactive.
We'll get a lot of
stuff done every day.
But our ultimate
goal as a leader
is to make sure that the team
knows what real success is.
So that'll be point number two.
Point three is
all about the idea
that the principle is this--
if you're alive, you need help.
So as a leader, you
must be willing not
to do it all on your own.
You've got to be willing
to try to allow yourself
to be receptive and to be
open to support, as well.
So that's a really big key.
And the goal, really,
here is the idea
that, ultimately, none of us
are smarter than all of us.
So let's get everybody thinking.
And in particular, in
leadership, the key
is not to do it
always by yourself.
There is such a thing as the
loneliness of the leader.
But often, that loneliness
is self-imposed.
And it doesn't need to be.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: In that clip, you
talked about leadership.
And what does that
have to do with love?
We've talked about happiness.
We've talked about success.
Now we've talked
about leadership.
How does that lead into
the "Loveability" course?
>>HOLDEN: OK, well, on this
planet, every act of love
is an act of leadership.
Fundamentally, the highest
note of leadership--
when you look at our
planet, deep down, we all
know we're made of love.
We all know love
is super important.
We would all vote
for love in a moment.
We look around the planet,
and what do we see?
We're fundamentally seeing
fear, pain, suffering, war.
And it's like,
something's missing here.
What's missing?
Us.
We're missing.
How can we get more involved
in the world and in life?
We've got to show up more.
How do we show up more?
We show up as the loving men
and women that we really are.
When we truly choose
love and we make
love more important than
anything else, that's you
and me, Lisa, showing
up as our true selves.
And that's leadership.
Who does it affect?
It affects the person in
front of you right now.
It affects your family, and
it affects your workplace.
It affects everybody.
Love on this planet
is leadership.
>>LISA: Take leaders
like Nelson Mandela,
Mother Teresa, the Dalai Lama.
Those are leaders
that lead with love.
>>HOLDEN: Completely.
>>LISA: What is the
practical part of it?
What does the course
teach on this?
>>HOLDEN: So "Loveability"
is a three-day program
that I created because I
didn't have a class on love
when I was at school.
It just wasn't there.
The closest we got was
"Romeo and Juliet."
That was it.
And it's a good story
with a terrible ending.
So it's not great.
When I studied psychology, we
had one lecture on love-- well,
I don't think it
really was about love.
The lecture was called
"Interpersonal Attraction
Theory."
I remember asking my lecturers,
I said, is this love?
And they were so noncommittal.
And I messed with them.
At Christmas, I sent
them Christmas cards.
I signed them "with lots of
interpersonal attraction,
from Robert Holden."
So in psychology, we didn't
even talk about love.
And I felt there
was an absence here.
Even in philosophy,
some of my heroes
would not talk about love.
Carl Jung.
Carl Jung talked about
everything, including UFOs.
He did not talk about love.
Krishnamurti, one of my heroes,
would not talk about love.
Carl Rogers, he talked about
unconditional positive regard.
But he wouldn't talk about love.
The reason why so many of these
people wouldn't talk about love
is because they felt that too
many people had got to the word
first, and that it
was tainted somehow.
There was too much
confusion in the word.
Now, as you know,
Lisa, I believe
that clarity is the way forward.
So I feel it's like, let's
not be afraid of these words.
Let's get back to them and
find some clarity in there.
So with "Loveability,"
that's my meditation on love.
That's where I'm saying, let's
get clear about what love is.
And let's start very,
very clearly with the idea
that love is not just a word.
Just in the same way that you
and I are not just bodies,
it's like we're more than
that, love is not just a word.
Let's get past the word.
And when we get past
the word, I think
what we come to is,
fundamentally, a basic drama.
The basic drama is that
our unconditioned self
knows it's loveable.
And the basic truth of
the unconditioned self
is I am loveable.
Now, we have this unconditioned
self, but we move away from it.
We have that loss of being that
we were talking about earlier.
And as we move away from
the unconditioned self,
we create a self-image.
We create a persona.
Now, the unconditioned
self believes in love.
It knows it is loveable.
The basic truth
is I am loveable.
The self image has a basic fear.
The basic fear is
I'm not loveable.
From that basic fear comes
our myth of inadequacy.
The myth of inadequacy
is I'm not enough.
Because I fear I'm not
lovable, I now tell myself
I'm not beautiful enough,
I'm not smart enough,
I'm not interesting enough,
I'm not powerful enough.
That's where the myth of
inadequacy comes from.
It comes to that fear
that I'm not lovable.
Now, if we can
tackle that, if we
can meet that fear face-to-face
and know that it's just a fear,
that brings us
back to ourselves.
And in "Loveability,"
what I'm trying
to do is I'm trying to help
people to see that the way
to find love is to be the
most loving person you can be.
The way to love one
person on this planet
is to be willing to love
everybody on this planet.
The way to show up fully in
your life is just to-- Rumi
said it so well.
He said, "To be a
true human being,
gamble everything on love."
Truly.
Let's just test how
good love really is.
Let's get past the
word and past the idea
that it's just a feeling.
Let's get into
what it really is.
My daughter, Bo, I was talking
with her about love one day.
And I asked her what love is.
Actually, no-- the
actual conversation
was we were looking at what
we are, what we are made of.
She was eavesdropping,
actually, on a conversation
that Holly and I were having.
I'd been telling Holly that
I was doing this meditation
on, what are we made of, really?
What are we made of?
And Bo, my daughter,
heard this conversation.
And she just said,
Daddy, it's easy.
I'll tell you what
we're made of.
OK, Bo, tell me.
She said, we're made
of love and water.
>>LISA: Oh, how cute.
>>HOLDEN: Love and water.
And you know what?
I just thought,
I'll go with that.
I think that's what we're
made of, love and water.
The soul is made of love.
That's our true nature.
When we remember
that and when we
know that love is intelligent--
this is the key bit, Lisa--
when we know love
is intelligent,
then we can go to love,
which is our true nature,
and we can say to love,
show me how to live today.
Show me how to be the person
I most want to be in the world
today.
You guide me.
You inspire me how
to work in the way I
want to work, relate in
the way I want to relate,
and be the person I want to be.
If we do that, that, I believe,
is what helps us to be happy.
That's what helps
us to be successful.
That brings the three
projects together.
>>LISA: That is beautiful.
I love that-- love intelligence.
It is something that is really
intelligent if you let it be.
>>HOLDEN: It's completely true.
When you stop letting love
be a word or a feeling
and you know it's our
true consciousness,
that's when we know that
love is intelligent.
>>LISA: It's complete knowing.
Well, thank you so much for
bringing all this together
to have a conversation about
happiness, success, and love--
>>HOLDEN: We did well.
>>LISA: --all in
the same context.
>>HOLDEN: We did well.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Well, if you would like to watch
my interview with Robert Holden
or share it with your
friends, go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I always
invite you to stay inspired.